Your First "Hello Nooku!"
=========================

In this Chapter, you'll experience:
-----------------------------------

1. The bare minimum requirement of displaying something in Nooku using MVC

In this Chapter, try to understand:
-----------------------------------

1. How Nooku deals with plural and singular views
2. A little bit about how directories are organized in Nooku
3. A little bit about the naming conventions

At bare minimum, you need 4 files and 5 directories to display something like a text "Hello, World!" in Nooku.

We will work with a component named "com_app". Here are the steps.
------------------------------------------------------------------

###The Entry Point###

1.  Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app`
2.  Create a PHP file `/administrator/components/com_app/app.php`
3.  Code inside `/administrator/components/com_app/app.php`

[script](http://gist-it.appspot.com/github/raeldc/com_app/blob/chapter-1a/code/administrator/components/com_app/app.php)

###The Controller###

1. Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app/controllers`
2. Create a PHP file `/administrator/components/com_app/controllers/app.php`
3. Here's the code inside `/administrator/components/com_app/controllers/app.php`
    
[script](http://gist-it.appspot.com/github/raeldc/com_app/blob/chapter-1a/code/administrator/components/com_app/controllers/app.php)

###The View###

1. Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app/views`
2. Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app`
3. Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/html.php`
4. Here's the code inside `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/html.php`

[script](http://gist-it.appspot.com/github/raeldc/com_app/blob/chapter-1a/code/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/html.php)

###The Template###

1. Create a directory `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/tmpl`
2. Create a PHP file `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/tmpl/form.php`
3. Here's the code inside `/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/tmpl/form.php`

[script](http://gist-it.appspot.com/github/raeldc/com_app/blob/chapter-1a/code/administrator/components/com_app/views/app/tmpl/form.php)

Access your new app by going to `http://yourserver/nooku/administrator/index.php/app`

Congratulations! You have just created your first Nooku component. 

A little bit of explanation
---------------------------

By default, Nooku will automagically look for objects based on the name of your app if you don't provide queries in the URL. 
If you didn't provide a "view" parameter in the URL and your component's name is "com_app", then Nooku will look for "app" controller, 
Inside the view directory, it will look for an "app" view(which is a directory), and use "html" as the format. 
If your view's name is singular which is in this case true, then Nooku will use the "form.php" template layout.

